Brady Lund: All right. Hello again, everybody. This module. We are focusing on the topic of information management. So
Brady Lund: what is information management? Well, think about everything we've talked about thus far, this semester
Brady Lund: and applying that within specific contexts. So within organizations in particular.
Brady Lund: how do we work with our knowledge of information resources, people that use these resources and the various policies, processes, practices within organizations in order to make sure that access to information, the flow of information is working as efficiently as possible.
Brady Lund: So as you can see here, information management.
Brady Lund: dictionary definition ensuring that information is successfully organized and stored throughout its life cycle within organizations. So we're talking about or focusing on the lifecycle of information which I believe I talk about on the next slide in a bit more detail. But essentially the idea that we want to have control within our organizations on information from when it's been 1st created
Brady Lund: to when it is being removed from an organization and everything in between, how people are using it, how people are accessing it, how we are storing it, making sure that we keep our information protected, our proprietary information is stored securely those kinds of principles.
Brady Lund: And so we are responsible for managing interactions between a variety of stakeholders. We have administrators of the systems, the people who are owning the information contained within the systems, the users, the people on the end, who are actually doing something with the information.
Brady Lund: the systems themselves. So interacting with the systems, managing the systems, managing our databases, interactions with the actual information itself. How are people using this information? How do we make it as accessible as possible, and then the policies and procedures that are in place within our organization. So.
Brady Lund: to give an example of that, we may have a policy related to privacy of certain documents or confidentiality of certain documents, and so we may need to have certain procedures in place that guide or direct who can actually have access to this information. It may only be top level administrators who can access certain information, whereas a lower level employee may not be able to access that information. So
Brady Lund: we are responsible for maintaining those policies and procedures to make sure that we are in adherence with all of those.
Brady Lund: and obviously the purpose of this is to ensure quality and efficiency of our data and information within our organization.
Brady Lund: If we didn't have information management, if we didn't have systems, admin positions working in this area. What you'd probably have is people storing a lot of information locally such as on their own devices.
Brady Lund: Maybe they are not aware of or not following strictly the policies and procedures in place for the organization. Maybe somebody is storing locally information that would have been vital or important, or helpful to individuals or entities in another part of the organization. But these people don't even know that that information exists because it's only stored on a local device.
Brady Lund: So we want to enhance efficiency and improve the quality of information sharing with our organization by having a central entity that helps manage all of these information resources.
Brady Lund: Obviously, because of that, you're going to be working both with people and with technology and with information resources themselves. So you need to have a diverse skill set. You need to be willing to talk to people, interview people, to see what information they need and how they need it, and you need to have some knowledge of how to work with the systems themselves to make that a reality.
Brady Lund: So, as I mentioned, we have the lifecycle of information.
Brady Lund: And if you go out and search lifecycle of information, if you Google it, you're going to get a variety of different models. So there's not one perfect
Brady Lund: lifecycle of information. Model people add different steps, people rename different steps. But what you have here essentially on the on the right, and what I described is a basic general model of how we perceive the lifecycle of information.
Brady Lund: So this process begins at the top.
Brady Lund: We are creating or collecting information. So we may be taking
Brady Lund: data that already exists out there in the world, and we may be collating it. We may be analyzing it to create meaningful information for our organization.
Brady Lund: Or we may be creating information such as documents, documentation within our organization. But we have the creation or the collection of information that's relevant to our organization.
Brady Lund: We're then going to secure and organize this information. So we talked about information organization. That is where this falls in the process. We are making it accessible to members of our organization who should have access to it and making sure at the same time that it's secure. So when we talk about information security
Brady Lund: in our ethics
Brady Lund: module next week. This is core to that as well. We're ensuring both of these aspects simultaneously as we're taking this information that's coming into our organization and actually inserting it
Brady Lund: into our systems for use.
Brady Lund: Then, of course, we have use. So we are in this part looking for
Brady Lund: how our members of our organization are going to interact with the information. So information behavior that module, we're focused on
Brady Lund: specific to our organizational context, how are people going to use this information? And how are they going to try to find and interact with this information
Brady Lund: store? So what do we have in terms of actually maintaining this information in between when we've inserted into a system and when people actually use it, and when we get to the next step which is
Brady Lund: deletion or removal of information that is either
Brady Lund: redundant. So we have multiple copies of a document, for instance, that's just kind of taking up space, or it's no longer being used. It's not relevant. So rather than taking up space in our systems or repositories, we're going to remove that
Brady Lund: an alternative to deleting information, then, would be archiving information. So these kind of steps, they're a process. But at the same time they can occur simultaneously, because you're kind of making decisions as you're going through this process to determine. Do we want to retain this long term? Or do we want to completely remove this document. So there may be some information, such as historical documents that obviously you don't want to just delete, destroy.
Brady Lund: But they may not have a huge amount of relevance to the current organization as it's operating. So for historical documents and those kinds of things that you want to maintain about your organization.
Brady Lund: you you might instead archive it, you may put it on a different server. You may put it in a different location within your organization. Where it's secure, it's safe. It can be referenced if needed, at some point in the future.
Brady Lund: But it's not taking up space in the main areas that people are accessing information. So making those kinds of decisions as well as an important aspect of information management.
Brady Lund: So how do we manage information?
Brady Lund: Well, we'll adhere to principles of information governance. So we take into our decision
Brady Lund: the current policies and practices within our organization. We also have to consider any legal, regulatory, or ethical standards that exist at like a professional organizational level
Brady Lund: or a government level.
Brady Lund: and make sure we're adhering to those. So certain types of documentation require certain adherence to privacy policies such as hipaa for health data and certain policies may require certain handling procedures, those kinds of things.
Brady Lund: At the same time we may be creating our own internal policies and procedures on how we deal with information within our actual little department. So we may have different procedures in place as to where we're going to store certain types of information based on what we know about the organization, and how often or how specifically they use these types of information.
Brady Lund: We're going to be working with content management and database systems. So we're working on taking in the information, making it accessible, interacting with that information.
Brady Lund: At the same time, we're often going to be working in the area of data analytics and reporting. So it may depend from organization to organization. One aspect of information management that is unique. Is that the actual job that you're doing can vary, depending on what organization you're in and how they kind of use your position. So it may be creating insights from data related to your collections
Brady Lund: to make that
Brady Lund: basically create more awareness of the resources you have available. Or it may actually be you're you're working in data analytics. And you're doing analytics for the organization as a whole. So these different roles may be combined together as like a data analyst and information manager.
Brady Lund: And then training is an important aspect. So educating people about how to use the systems, educating people about the information resources that are available, so on and so forth. So you'll be doing a wide variety of roles and expected to have knowledge and competency in a wide variety of areas. If you pursue this area.
Brady Lund: So to conclude, let me just talk briefly about the future of this area. I think it's a very promising area.
Brady Lund: I think skill sets and information management are valuable. Whether you were going to go into something like libraries or industry. If you're going to be a data analyst, even, you're probably going to be doing some of these roles, because, as I mentioned, a lot of these roles are kind of being combined together and used in unique ways. Now
Brady Lund: going forward.
Brady Lund: I would expect this position to have a pretty big role when it comes to AI policy integrating machine learning applications within the organization and explaining to people how those work
Brady Lund: and different policies related to that, and possibly blockchain as well, really, any kind of emerging technology that may be integrated and impact how we're interacting with information. So if you really want to get, you know, future focused, you could think about
Brady Lund: the expansion of cloud-based information management, the integration of Internet of things.
Brady Lund: even things related to quantum computing applications. But these are all forward looking things, and really, just to stress the fact that you. Another aspect of this job is that you will be expected to have awareness of emerging trends, and how they can be implemented into your organization and aspects related to information ethics which we'll discuss next week.
Brady Lund: particularly things related to information and data, privacy and security, because, of course, that is a vital aspect of your organization and maintaining your organization.
Brady Lund: So that is a brief introduction to information management. Please, as always, work through the content for this week. Reach out to me if you have any questions, and we will see you next week as we talk about
Brady Lund: information, ethics. Thank you.